# Playground

This is the playground branch for our ft_transcendence repository.

Use this for learning the tech stack and trying out things without worrying about creating files and git history that need to be cleaned afterwards.

Like our eventual main branch, changes to this branch must be done through a pull request with at least one approval.

See [README_next.md](README_next.md) for the README generated by create-next-app.

# ft_transcendence

Pong game with 3D graphics, as a web app with user profiles.

## Requirements

* Node.js

  `brew install node` on school computers. Tested with version v25.7.0, probably works with slightly older but not with the preinstalled v12.x.

* NPM, package manager for Node.js projects.

  Usually included with Node.js installation. We could consider alternate package managers, but probably don't need to.

* Run `npm install` to install dependencies as specified in `package.json`.

* For frontend development, you might want React Developer Tools extension in your browser.

## Tech choices

* Node.js - JavaScript runtime for development tools and server-side code
* TypeScript - JavaScript-compatible language with static type checking
* React - component-based JavaScript UI toolkit
* Next.js - opinionated fullstack web app framework for React
* Three.js - 3D graphics library for JavaScript
* react-three-fiber - Integrate Three.js and React

### To be decided

* Some CSS/styling solution or framework
	* Need to research options
* ORM framework for persisting information in a database
	* Need to research options
* Database server
	* MariaDB is probably fine, do we need to consider other options?

### Alternatives

* If Next.js turns out too complicated, we can use plain React for the frontend and Express for the backend
* If react-three-fiber turns out too complicated, we can use plain Three.js for the game and manually embed it in the frontend
* If ORM turns out too complicated, we can drop the module and use database directly

## Required learning and research

See also [TECH_HINTS.md](TECH_HINTS.md) for useful bits on information.

### Frontend

* Basic HTML
* React with TypeScript
* Next.js
* Basic CSS
* Research styling solutions

### Backend

* TypeScript
* Next.js
* Research ORM frameworks

### Game

* TypeScript
* Three.js
* react-three-fiber
